A lot of ground covered,
let's conclude this module now by having a look at some other of these controller components, so components
which you actually create programmatically by injecting their controller here in our Ionic Angular app
and specifically, I want to introduce two new controller components which we need in this app.
The first one is related to the auth page and there when we click this login button,
we currently simply always redirect.
Now right now, there's little else we can do, right,
we have no real login logic but later we'll send a request here to the web.
So I already want to add a little timeout here to fake that we have to wait for a response
and I'm of course adding this here so that I can show you how to add a loader,
so a loading icon. Now in this function here after one second, I will redirect or let's make it 1.5
seconds actually and in my auth service, I'll set isAuthenticated back to false
so that we actually start on this authentication page here.
So let's wait for that to reload and here I am. Now if I press login,
nothing happens for one and a half second before I'm redirected.
Now this is of course not the best user experience,
if we have to wait for something, we want to show a loader and for that, I'll actually first start with a
non-overlay loader where we don't need to inject anything
and this is also something we'll use later in the course
once we add HTTP requests, I will already show it to you here. For this, I can add an isLoading property
to the auth page component and set this to false here and then here in onLogin, I'll set isLoading
to true and then once I'm done, so inside set timeout, I'll set this loading to false.
Now we can use this isLoading property here in the auth.page.html file to show a spinner and Ionic
has us covered here too,
we have spinners and progress bars to choose from, the official docs of course are the place to go.
Here I'll simply replace the button with a spinner, so I'll add ion-spinner which is such an element
and give it a color of primary and only render that if isLoading is true
and on the other hand, the button will only be rendered if we're not loading because if we are loading,
then the buttons should not be pressable again.
So with that, we let this reload, as soon as I click that login button, we got that nice spinner which
will automatically have the platform specific look,
so if we have a look at this on a pixel device here,
so Android therefore, actually a smaller one so that it fits onto the screen, if we have a look at that
and we reload, now we have that Android spinner.
Now of course you can also center that in the middle of the screen by for example wrapping it into a
div or an ion-grid and on the div, we could use text center here and it should now be centered.
So you can style that,
you can also style it with CSS and all of that is nice.
Now this is a spinner which we absolutely can display
but for me such a spinner and that's now a purely philosophic thing makes more sense
if we'll stay on the page.
So for example here, we can later add such a spinner when we're loading our places. On the login page,
I actually want to add an overlay on the page so that we can't click anything and it's very clear that
the entire app is now waiting for us to load this because on a screen like this here, we could argue
yes we might see a spinner here but we can still navigate to other places.
Now when we're logging in, we're definitely stuck until we succeeded
and therefore here, I will actually not use this spinner, I'll comment it out but instead use such a controller
spinner which I already announced and I also removed ngIf here by the way on the button.
So let's now have a look at that loading controller.